President Chen Shui-bian express the hope Thursday that Japan will allow tourist from Taiwan to stay in Japan for at least two week without a visa .
he tell Takahashi Masaje , the newly appoint director-general of the japanese Interchange Association in Taipei , that the economic and trade relation between the two country be very close .
the two-way trade between they amount to us$ 39.28 billion in 2002 with a trade surplus of us$ 15.3 billion in Japan 's favor .
taiwanese tourist to Japan in the same year total 880,000 .
Taiwan begin on May 1 to grant 30-day visa-free entry for
japanese tourist , in the hope that Japan will reciprocate by give
tourist from Taiwan at least a two-week , visa-free entry .
President Chen also express the hope that during he tenure substantive relation between the two country will improve .
-lrb- by EH -rrb-
if mainland China be to attack Taiwan in a preemptive , blitzkrieg-style strike , it would be because the leadership in Beijing realize that Taiwan lack the will power to defend its territory , a member of a Taiwan think tank say Thursday .
Shuai Hua-ming of the National Policy Foundation , a think tank of the opposition Kuomintang , make the comment after the U.S. Department of Defense issue a report about mainland China 's military strategy regard Taiwan .
in its latest report , the Pentagon say that Beijing want to counterbalance the edge enjoy in the region by the United States , and offer the possibility that the mainland could use preemptive attack to make up for its military deficiency .
Shuai , who serve as head of the National Management College of the military , say the report has shed light on mainland China 's capability and the direction of its military buildup in preparation for solve the Taiwan issue .
the report , he say , serve as a warning to not only the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Department of Defense , but to Taiwan as well .
look at the military strategy of the United States in Iraq with its `` shock and awe '' bombardment campaign , military leader in Beijing have conclude that conventional technique of invasion and conquest by stage may be inappropriate when it come to solve the `` Taiwan question . ''
`` Beijing observe the U.S. war in Afghanistan and Iraq and develop the idea that give the hole in Taiwan 's national defense and a weak will to defend itself , the mainland could catch Taiwan off guard with preemptive strike , believe that even without use a conventional invasion strategy , it can force Taiwan to surrender , '' he say .
he also note that Beijing have a more solid national defense base compare with Taiwan .
Beijing can produce sophisticated warplane or purchase they from other country .
it also deploy middle-to-short range missile such as the m-9 and M-11 , which can target the most vulnerable part of Taiwan 's anti-missile defens .
Mainland China also have the ability to produce nuclear-powered submarine , buy additional kilo-class submarine and equip supersonic anti-ship missile on its destroyer , which he say are not target Taiwan .
he say Beijing 's buildup is to block any U.S. aircraft carrier fleet from intervene in the Taiwan strait , as well as send a warning to the United States that any interference in the Taiwan Strait will result in the incursion of a hefty price , so that the United States will not be so amenable to send ship to the Strait as it do during the 1996 presidential election in Taiwan when the mainland fire missile north of the island in what it say be maneuver .
Shuai note that the guide principle in Taiwan use to be one of `` the ROC Army will conduct the final battle , '' but Taiwan then change its strategy because the army 's combat readiness did not improve even after the arm force be streamlined .
Taiwan 's edge over the mainland in term of naval and air force has also been erode , he say .
if Taiwan 's military be to deal with surprise attack by Beijing , it need to have some kind of early warning system .
in addition , Taiwan must establish a command and control center so that authority will not be dispute in time of war , Shuai say .
the most important thing be that civilian and the military in Taiwan have the will to fight , add that if Beijing strike preemptively , it will only be because it see the people of Taiwan as lack will power or solidarity .
he conclude that , `` the forge of a national will be even more crucial than buy advanced weaponry . ''
lawmaker allege Thursday that the government 's plan to privatize state-run enterprise has been design in such a way that only specific conglomerate will benefit .
Independent Legislator Sisy Chen say at a public hearing on the privatization of state-owned enterprise that the upcome release of 1.5 billion share of China Steel Corp. be a attempt to appear to divest the interest of the company while actually orchestrate the purchase of large block of share by a select few conglomerate , thus render the privatization meaningless .
China Steel be the no. 1 state-owned steel corporation , and although the government hold less than 50 percent of its share , the company be , in effect , control by the government , because other shareholder be too small .
Chen say that China Steel 's business has been decline mainly because the government salt upper management with individual who have little on no experience in the steel industry .
Chen say that since the government is go to release such a huge number of share , it should consider carefully who will lead the company afterward .
Chen allege that the Presidential Office has ask the Executive Yuan to contact specific potential buyer of the government share of the company , and it be very possible that some conglomerate will be able to `` buy '' they way into obtain seat in the boardroom .
such privatization model will make state-owned enterprise less profitable in the long run , she say .
Legislator Lin Huei-kuan of the opposition people First Party say that the asset of state-owned enterprise belong to all the people .
no matter which party be in power , he say , it should `` address the issue of privatization of state-owned enterprise seriously , and not just wantonly dump share . ''
a lawmaker of the rule Democratic Progressive Party -lrb- DPP -rrb- tout Thursday for the establishment of a Taichung Port Free Trade Zone , say that various key element for such a proposal be now mature .
Hsieh Ming-yuan make the remark at a public hearing he organize in which local government official , include Taichung Harbor Bureau Director Hsieh Ming-hui and representative of the domestic business and industry community take part .
say that it be extremely important to help the government revive Taiwan 's economy , Hsieh say a propose Taichung special municipality -- create by a merge of Taichung City and Taichung County , which be already in sight -- and the building of the Taichung Science-based Industrial Park be additional favorable condition to help Taichung Harbor develop into a free trade port zone .
accord to Hsieh , the draft on the merger is expect to be submit to the Legislative Yuan for screening in September and the issue might be settle before the presidential election slate for March next year .
once Taichung has been upgrade to a special municipality like Taipei and Kaohsiung , Taichung Harbor will have a vast hinterland , make it more competitive and qualified to become a free trade port zone , he say , add that such facility would increase the economic benefit and business opportunity for resident of central Taiwan .
Hsieh say Taichung Harbor meet all the necessary requirement for become a free trade port zone , include a good harbor , warehousing facility , ample space and hinterland , and a convenient traffic network .
meanwhile , a official of the Industrial Development Bureau echo Hsieh 's remark , say that with a taichung special municipality , Taichung Harbor will offer the best condition for a free trade port zone .
Taiwan will organize the country 's first asia-pacific non-governmental organization -lrb- NGO -rrb- forum in October , a Ministry of Foreign Affairs -lrb- MOFA -rrb- official say Thursday .
note that Taiwan 's participation in international assistance to iraqi refugee organize by the Mercy Corps earlier this year contribute greatly to the promotion of exchange and cooperation between local and foreign ngo , Lu also announce that member of the Mercy Corps will fly to Taiwan in September to participate in a seminar on the promotion of international humanitarian aid .
to help domestic ngo operate in the international arena , Lu go on , the MOFA is establish a bilingual web site on NGOs and NPOs -lrb- non-profit organization -rrb- , which is slate to go on line Dec. 1 .
Premier Yu Shyi-kun has earn a 58 percent public support rating since he assume the post a year and a half ago , accord to the result of a survey release Thursday by the Cabinet-level Research , Development and Evaluation Commission -lrb- RDEC -rrb- .
the poll respondent be most satisfied with Yu 's performance in the field relate to environmental protection , promote health care and human rights and safeguard national security , the result show .
he effort in advocate environmental protection gain the highest approval rate of 76 percent .
however , some 23 percent of the respondent express dissatisfaction with Yu 's performance .
at the same time , 45 percent of the people poll approve the Cabinet 's overall performance , while 35 percent voice dissatisfaction , up by 3 percentage point from the result of a similar poll conduct early this year .
the random telephone survey , conduct by the RDEC July 23-24 , recover valid 1,068 response and have a margin of error of 3 percent .
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs -lrb- MOFA -rrb- confirm the departure of a asylum-seeking north korean woman for South Korea Thursday .
MOFA spokesman Richard Shih say that Park Young Shil , who arrive in Kaoshiung Wednesday aboard the panamanian freighter Basic Spirit , had leave for Inchon , South Korea on a Korean Airlines flight .
she was accompany to the Chiang Kai-shek International Airport by official of the MOFA and of the Korean Mission in Taipei .
Park , 32 , leave North Korea for Jilin Province in northeastern mainland China in May 2001 and later proceed to the northern chinese port city of Qinhuangdao , where she work at a korean restaurant , accord to Shih .
Park confess that she decide to leave July 13 after being inform through tv news report of the possibility that she could travel to South Korea to seek political asylum via a third country , Shih add .
she then jump into the sea , where she was pick up by the panamanian freighter that visit four other port in Northeast Asia before arrive in Kaohsiung Harbor , where she appeal to harbor official to help she get to South Korea to seek political asylum .
the south korean government ask the MOFA to help Park travel to South Korea after confirm she refugee status follow a joint investigation by the MOFA and the Korean Mission in Taipei , he say .
note that Taiwan be a free and democratic country , Shih stress that its decision to help Park was base on humanitarian reason and the protection of human rights .
although there be a increase threat of a possible drought in northern Taiwan , southern region are not face water shortage , thanks to recent torrential rain in mountainous area , official say Thursday .
since the beginning of July , it has rain only 67.7 millimeter in the Chiayi region , the lowest level in 35 year , official of the Chiayi weather station say .
they add , however , that there will be no water shortage for the region 's some 800,000 resident through the end of this year , as the two major reservoir -- the Jenyi Dam and the Lam Dam -- be almost full .
over the past 35 year , only the July rainfall of 81 millimeter in 1983 and 70.4 millimeter in 1985 , have be lower than the 100-millimeter mark , the official note .
the third-lowest level of 100.3 millimeter was record in 1986 .
meanwhile , the Tsengwen Reservoir in Tainan County -- Taiwan 's largest reservoir -- contain 142 million cubic meter of water , while the nearby Wushantou Reservoir hold 45.3 million cubic meter .
the water conserve by the two dam be sufficient to irrigate more than 40,000 hectare of rice paddy , as well provide sufficient for the general public , despite the fact that no rain has fall in July in the Tainan area , accord to official of the local irrigation association .
at the same time , nearly 3 million resident in the greater Kaohsiung area will not see a water shortage this summer , as the Kaoping Stream , the leading water source for Kaohsiung and neighboring Pingtung County , is flow at full momentum , Kaohsiung water official say .
affect by a linger front in the Pacific , daily average temperature in city across Taiwan have register record high in July , Central Weather Bureau official report .
in Tamsui , near Taipei in northern Taiwan , the temperature on two day set record high of over 38 degree Celsius , while central Taichung and southern Chiayi , Tainan and Kaohsiung also experience they highest daily temperature in history this month , the official say .
meanwhile , water level of the Feitsui Reservoir in Taipei County drop to 142.82 meter as of noon Thursday , a further reduction from the previous-day level of 143 meter , prompt the reservoir authority to warn the public in the north that water shortage might reoccur in the short term should the lack of rain continue .
President Chen Shui-bian describe the country 's aborigine Thursday as `` the glory of Taiwan '' in he latest on line weekly .
cite Tsao Jin-hui -- the first taiwanese to make it as a pitcher in the U.S. Major League Baseball -- as a example , the president say the `` whole country '' was glue to the television last Saturday during he Major League debut and share the glory bring by the victory of he Colorado Rockies over the Milwaukee Brewers .
Chen say Tsao has enhance Taiwan 's presence in the world , just as many Taiwan aborigine have do in the past .
the island 's aborigine ' contribution to the country are often ignore but they talent in sport , music and art have enrich the life of Taiwan 's people and should not be overlook .
note that Taiwan has been ignore in international society too , the president urge the public to follow the example of Taiwan 's aborigine and strive to glorify they country on the international stage .
the government has spend nt$ 1 billion -lrb- us$ 29.27 million -rrb- to build the National Kinmen Institute of Technology and its predecessor over the last six year , Premier Yu Shyi-kun say in Kinmen County Thursday .
the figure mean the government has spend about nt$ 1 million -lrb- us$ 29,270 -rrb- for each of the 1,000-odd graduate from the school , the premier say at a ceremony to mark the inauguration of the first national college in the frontline island county .
that cost be far more than the average cost spend by the government on a college graduate in Taiwan and bear out the government 's emphasis on the importance of education on Kinmen , Yu say .
the National Kinmen Institute of Technology has been set up on the basis of the Kinmen Campus of the National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences , which was set up six year ago .
later in the day , the premier travel to the island county of Penghu to inspect the construction of a medical center there .
work on the medical center , initially slate to be complete by Dec. 31 , be somewhat behind schedule .
once complete , it will be man by medical staff from the Tri Service General Hospital in Taipei .
the Taiwan Stock Exchange -lrb- TAIEX -rrb- has recently sign a memorandum of understanding -lrb- MOU -rrb- with the Johannesburg Stock Exchange -lrb- JSE -rrb- of South Africa to increase cooperation between the two bourse , TAIEX official say Thursday .
the relevant MOU document were exchange by mail because of the cancellation of a signing ceremony originally schedule to be hold in Taipei in mid-June , when JSE president and chief executive officer Russell M. Loubser be to have visit Taipei to participate in a working meeting of the World Federation of Exchanges -lrb- WFE -rrb- , the official say .
Loubser cancel he trip after the WFE meeting was postpone until next March due to the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome earlier this year , they explain .
the JSE be the 20th bourse in the world to sign a mou of cooperation with TAIEX , the official say .
democracy and opening up to more religious freedom be a irresistible tide in mainland China , Vatican Secretary for Relations with States Archbishop Jean-Louis Tauran was quote as say Thursday .
in a meeting with visit Republic of China Legislator Sun Kuo-hua , Tauran reportedly tell Sun he be optimistic about what he say be the movement of mainland China toward more democracy and religious freedom .
he also praise the contribution to bilateral tie of ROC Ambassador Raymond Tai , who be present at the meeting , accord to Sun .
for he part , Sun thank Tauran for the warm reception ROC first lady Wu Shu-chen receive while visit the Vatican July 19-22 and for the great contribution make to Taiwan by the some 700 catholic priest , 800-odd catholic church and 500-odd catholic-owned school in Taiwan .
as a legislator elect by overseas Chinese , Sun be on a tour of Europe to meet overseas chinese there .
a plan to take throat swab and blood specimen from passenger who show symptom of fever upon arrival at international airport has been put on hold for fifteen day , a Department of Health -lrb- DOH -rrb- official say Thursday .
Shih Wen-yi , deputy director-general of the Center for Disease Control under the DOH , who announce the decision , did not explain why the plan -- set to begin Aug. 1 as a precautionary measure against severe acute respiratory syndrome -- was postpone until Aug. 15 .
in a related story that day , Taipei Mayor Ma Ying-jeou say all city government agency except municipal hospital will do away with the practice of take the temperature of visitor from Friday .
